---
title: "How to async – async await Internals and Expert Knowledge for Scalable .NET Apps"
date: 2025-05-05
type: Workshop
duration: 8h
language: German
location: Regensburg
country: Germany
event: Advanced Developers Conference 2025
tags: [async-await, .NET, performance, scalability]
---

Workshop focusing on async/await internals and expert knowledge for scalable .NET applications.

<!-- truncate -->

## Event Details

async and await have been essential parts of the .NET ecosystem for years — yet subtle bugs and performance issues can still sneak into our codebases when used incorrectly.That ends now!

In this full-day workshop, we’ll start with the fundamentals and look behind the scenes: What impact does async-and-await have on the .NET thread pool and on the scalability of ASP.NET Core applications? What’s the difference between async I/O and async compute? Which data access libraries support async I/O, which do not — and how can we determine that? What does the state machine generated by the C# compiler for each async method actually look like, and how does it behave at runtime? In which situations does sync-over-async make sense? And what exactly do the SynchronizationContext and ConfigureAwait do?

We’ll explore all these questions through plenty of hands-on examples. This workshop will equip you with the expert knowledge you need to design and implement asynchronous code effectively in your .NET projects.

Requirements:
Participants should bring a computer with .NET 9 and any IDE or editor such as Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, or Rider. You will also need software such as Docker or Podman to run containers.
